Change `client_id_scheme` to a prefix (#263)
openid/OpenID4VP: openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

## Client Identifier Scheme

This specification defines the concept of a Client Identifier Scheme that indicates how the Wallet is supposed to interpret the Client Identifier and associated data in the process of Client identification, authentication, and authorization. It is communicated in prefix within the `client_id` parameter. This prefix enables deployments of this specification to use different mechanisms to obtain and validate Client metadata beyond the scope of [@!RFC6749]. A certain Client Identifier Scheme MAY require the Verifier to sign the Authorization Request as means of authentication and/or pass additional parameters and require the Wallet to process them.

The value of the `client_id` Authorization Request parameter, as defined in [@!RFC6749], therefore MUST be structured as follows: 
```
<client_id_scheme>:<orig_client_id>
```

Here, `<client_id_scheme>` is the Client Identifier Scheme and `<orig_client_id>` is the identifier for the Client within the namespace of that scheme. See (#client_metadata_management) for Client Identifier Schemes defined by this specification. 

> For example, a request might contain `client_id=verifier_attestation:example-client` to indicate that the `verifier_attestation` Client Identifier Scheme is to be used and that within this scheme, the Verifier can be identified by the string `example-client`. The presentation would contain the string `verifier_attestation:example-client` as the audience (intended receiver). In all other places within the OAuth flow where the Client Identifier is used, the full string `verifier_attestation:example-client` would be used.

Reviewer: We could reword it a little bit for a better clarity. 

```suggestion
For example, a presentation request might contain `client_id=verifier_attestation:example-client` to indicate that the `verifier_attestation` Client Identifier Scheme is to be used and that within this scheme, the Verifier can be identified by the string `example-client`. The presentation would contain the full `verifier_attestation:example-client` string as the audience (intended receiver) and the same full string would be used as the Client Identifier anywhere in the OAuth flow.```

Author: Thanks, I'll commit this manually.

> Important: Without the prefix, the `orig_client_id` is not sufficient to identify the Verifier, as different Verifiers (under control by different entities and using different cryptographic material) might have the same `orig_client_id` within different `client_id_scheme` namespaces. Therefore, `orig_client_id` MUST NOT be used independently within the context of the Wallet or its responses to identify the client. Only the full string `<client_id_scheme>:<orig_client_id>` is the Client Identifier of the Verifier, in particular in places where the Client Identifier is used in [@!RFC6749] and in the presentation returned to the Verifier.

Reviewer 2: How does this preserve the ordinary behaviour of OAuth2 and OpenID e.g where the client ID absent a scheme is to be treated on face value as a pre-registered client

Reviewer 3: I agree, see https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/263#issuecomment-2349061834 for my suggestion.

Author: This has been resolved in the latest revision of the draft using the rules proposed by @jogu

> Note that the Verifier needs to determine which Client Identifier schemes the Wallet supports prior to sending the Authorization Request in order to choose a supported scheme.

Reviewer 2: As I've highlighted before this is a huge limitation of this approach and is the basis of discussion in #248 and #247. It essentially means that there needs be some form of out of band negotiation model in order for a verifier to pick the right scheme. I don't see how this is practically possible.

Reviewer 3: The changes in https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/issues/248 allow this to work and can be easily updated to work with the changes in this PR (i.e. putting everything in `client_id` instead of having a separate client_id_scheme in the unprotected header). I can't see any real practical issues with that approach.

we only have two proposals on how to fix this on the table and (as I said on the issue) I don't think the suggestion in #247 fully solves the problem.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, I've left a comment on #248.

Author: Resolving this as the discussion is continued in #248.

`response_mode`:
: OPTIONAL. Defined in [@!OAuth.Responses]. This parameter is used (through the new Response Mode `direct_post`) to ask the Wallet to send the response to the Verifier via an HTTPS connection (see (#response_mode_post) for more details). It is also used to request signing and encrypting (see (#jarm) for more details). If the parameter is not present, the default value is `fragment`. 

`client_id`:
: REQUIRED. Defined in [@!RFC6749]. This specification defines additional requirements to enable the use of Client Identifier Schemes as described in (#client_metadata_management).

## Examples

The following is a non-normative example of an Authorization Request: 

```
GET /authorize?
  response_type=vp_token
  &client_id=redirect_uri:https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example.org%2Fcb
  &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example.org%2Fcb
  &presentation_definition=...
  &nonce=n-0S6_WzA2Mj HTTP/1.1
```

The following is a non-normative example of an Authorization Request with a `request_uri_method` parameter (including the additional`client_metadata` parameters): 

```
GET /authorize?

>   client_id=x509_san_dns:client.example.org

Reviewer 4: I believe that this doesn't really scale

My name is "Giuseppe De Marco", not "trust-evaluation-mechanism:Giuseppe De Marco"

who verifies the trust with me uses the mechanisms it supports and that we might have in common, for this reason it is important to have a way to hint these mechanisms.

Since a usbject might be part of multiple networks and using more than a single trust framework, it would be better to hints a list of supported trust evaluation mechanisms, instead of embedding only one of them within the entity identifier, such as the client_id

I believe that this aspect is crucial for the grow of the ecosystem beyond the bounduaries if a single trust framework or network

Reviewer 5: I agree with @peppelinux. IMO, adding a prefix seems to introduce mandatory extra semantics to a field which are limiting.

I've also had this idea of something similar to `login_hint` found in other specifications that hint how client can be authenticated.

Reviewer 6: very strong suggestion to discuss `a single deployment enabling multiple trust frameworks and evaluation mechanisms` topic into a separate issue #248.

Author: @peppelinux If one of the trust frameworks uses federation and one uses x509_san_dns, then you cannot have the same name in both, regardless of whether client_id_scheme is a separate parameter, a prefix, or doesn't exist at all. Therefore what you're describing is a separate problem that we should discuss in #248.

Reviewer 3: > I agree with @peppelinux. IMO, adding a prefix seems to introduce mandatory extra semantics to a field which are limiting.
>
> I've also had this idea of something similar to login_hint found in other specifications that hint how client can be authenticated.

We don't have any other workable suggestions, and we've been at this for 6+ months now. I not sure there's any significant difference between a login_hint parameter like you mention and the existing client_id_scheme parameter.  Besides as Daniel says, we have multiple client_id_schemes, and there is no consistency in the values used (some use hostnames, some use https urls, some use dids). Having a single clientid that works across multiple ecosystems in the general case is not something anyone has proposed a workable solution for, most likely I'm guessing because it's now an unsolvable problem. (Hence why as Daniel/Kristina mentioned we have #248 to make the underlying problem work without assuming a client id is the same across all these ecosystems.)

The root problem we're getting at is that we've introduced a whole load of new ways for clients to assign their own client id, and the door is also open for other specifications to define more ways. Not namespacing the client id to indicate the mechanism via which it was assigned would be dangerous (because it opens up the very real possibility that we've seen actual exploits for in the real world that an attacker controlled piece of software is able to create a client id it was believed belonged uniquely to someone else), and there's no other solutions on the table.

The comparison with people's names isn't really valid as people's names aren't unique identifiers. Perhaps company names are a better analogy, not sure? But in that case, you are definitely namespace by the allocation mechanism, and in that case you always have to state "I'm Acme Inc registered in Delaware" when you are communicating with someone else, and if the other party wants to respond in a way that it's clear they're addressing you, they have to say "This message is for Acme Inc registered in Delaware".

Reviewer 4: @danielfett 

> If one of the trust frameworks uses federation and one uses x509_san_dns, then you cannot have the same name in both

The goal I have in mind  is to have a single deployment using multiple trust frameworks.

Technically, I can deploy a system using both metadata exchanged only via TLS and well-known endpoints, as well as OpenID Federation, and also x509 certificates using SAN. The first method aids in discovery and cryptographic key fetching, while the latter is used solely for cryptographic key fetching, with metadata fetching as an optional addition (if required, see ISO 18013-5, which operates without any metadata discovery).

Therefore, the name is always unique when based on DNS and can be more detailed (enabling a more flexible way to deploy multitenancy) using HTTPS URLs with web paths within the entity ID value. It is up to the deployers to decide their deployment strategy to match all the trust frameworks they may want to use. In the technical specification, we should enable this kind of flexibility.

Reviewer 4: technically, using X.509 certificates and SAN

X509v3 extensions:
    X509v3 Subject Alternative Name:
        URI:https://example.com/rp/entity1

Reviewer 3: @peppelinux 

>  In the technical specification, we should enable this kind of flexibility.

As I think I mentioned in another comment somewhere, we're not preventing people defining new client id schemes that have behaviour like this (whether it is a good idea for people to do so or not is a separate matter and likely depends on many details that haven't yet been talked about). If anything this PR is enabling that extensions like that in a way that doesn't result in security issues and confusion. If someone manages to come up with a single client id scheme that works for every single ecosystem/trust framework, then that's an even better outcome!

Reviewer 4: since the client_id using HTTPS URL doesn't make any conflicts with any other trust establishment mechanisms that might come or be hinted in the future, I can approve this PR thinking that fixed namespaces will not scale, while https url would be more flexible.

I'm not very happy about this, but happiness doesn't necessarily have to be found in github reviews :-)

Reviewer 4: @tlodderstedt client_id_scheme as single valued array didnt scale as well, it would have been an array to scale. 
More specifically about your question: It was not a comparison between the two but a vision about improve the specification with something more flexible. 

approved, let's try to move forward lightly.

`response_mode`:
: OPTIONAL. Defined in [@!OAuth.Responses]. This parameter is used (through the new Response Mode `direct_post`) to ask the Wallet to send the response to the Verifier via an HTTPS connection (see (#response_mode_post) for more details). It is also used to request signing and encrypting (see (#jarm) for more details). If the parameter is not present, the default value is `fragment`. 

`client_id`:
: REQUIRED. Defined in [@!RFC6749]. This specification defines additional requirements to enable the use of Client Identifier Schemes as described in (#client_metadata_management).

Additional request parameters MAY be defined and used,
as described in [@!RFC6749].
The Wallet MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters.

## Examples

The following is a non-normative example of an Authorization Request: 

```
GET /authorize?
  response_type=vp_token
  &client_id=redirect_uri:https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example.org%2Fcb
  &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example.org%2Fcb
  &presentation_definition=...
  &nonce=n-0S6_WzA2Mj HTTP/1.1
```

> The following is a non-normative example of an Authorization Request with a `request_uri_method` parameter (including the additional`client_metadata` parameters): 

Author: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of an Authorization Request with a `request_uri_method` parameter (including the additional `client_metadata` parameters): 
```

Note: "https://self-issued.me/v2" is a symbolic string and can be used as an `aud` Claim value even when this specification is used standalone, without SIOPv2. 

## Client Identifier Scheme and Verifier Metadata Management {#client_metadata_management}

This specification defines the concept of a Client Identifier Scheme that indicates how the Wallet is supposed to interpret the Client Identifier and associated data in the process of Client identification, authentication, and authorization. The Client Identifier Scheme enables deployments of this specification to use different mechanisms to obtain and validate metadata of the Verifier beyond the scope of [@!RFC6749]. The term Client Identifier Scheme is used since the Verifier is acting as an OAuth 2.0 Client.

> The Client Identifier Scheme is a string that MAY be communicated by the Verifier in a prefix within the `client_id` parameter in the Authorization Request. A fallback to pre-registered clients as in [@!RFC6749] remains in place as a default mechanism in case no Client Identifier Scheme was provided. A certain Client Identifier Scheme may require the Verifier to sign the Authorization Request as means of authentication and/or pass additional parameters and require the Wallet to process them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Client Identifier Scheme is a string that MAY be communicated by the Verifier in a prefix within the `client_id` parameter in the Authorization Request. A fallback to pre-registered Clients as in [@!RFC6749] remains in place as a default mechanism in case no Client Identifier Scheme was provided. A certain Client Identifier Scheme MAY require the Verifier to sign the Authorization Request as means of authentication and/or pass additional parameters and require the Wallet to process them.
```

The Client Identifier Scheme is a string that MAY be communicated by the Verifier in a prefix within the `client_id` parameter in the Authorization Request. A fallback to pre-registered Clients as in [@!RFC6749] remains in place as a default mechanism in case no Client Identifier Scheme was provided. A certain Client Identifier Scheme may require the Verifier to sign the Authorization Request as means of authentication and/or pass additional parameters and require the Wallet to process them.

### Syntax

For using a Client Identifier Scheme, the value of the `client_id` Authorization Request parameter, MUST be structured as follows: 
```
<client_id_scheme>:<orig_client_id>
```

Here, `<client_id_scheme>` is the Client Identifier Scheme and `<orig_client_id>` is an identifier for the Client within the namespace of that scheme. See (#client_identifier_schemes) for Client Identifier Schemes defined by this specification. 

> For example, an Authorization Request might contain `client_id=verifier_attestation:example-client` to indicate that the `verifier_attestation` Client Identifier Scheme is to be used and that within this scheme, the Verifier can be identified by the string `example-client`. The presentation would contain the full `verifier_attestation:example-client` string as the audience (intended receiver) and the same full string would be used as the Client Identifier anywhere in the OAuth flow.
> 
> Without the prefix, `example-client` in the example above would be interpreted as referring to a pre-registered client, as defined below. Therefore, Wallets MUST always use the full Client Identifier, including the prefix if provided, within the context of the Wallet or its responses to identify the client. This refers in particular to places where the Client Identifier is used in [@!RFC6749] and in the presentation returned to the Verifier.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, an Authorization Request might contain `client_id=verifier_attestation:example-client` to indicate that the `verifier_attestation` Client Identifier Scheme is to be used and that within this scheme, the Verifier can be identified by the string `example-client`. The presentation would contain the full `verifier_attestation:example-client` string as the audience (intended receiver) and the same full string would be used as the Client Identifier anywhere in the OAuth flow.

Without the prefix, `example-client` in the example above would be interpreted as referring to a pre-registered client, as defined below.

Confusing Verifiers using a Client Identifier Scheme with those using none can lead to attacks. Therefore, Wallets MUST always use the full Client Identifier, including the prefix if provided, within the context of the Wallet or its responses to identify the client. This refers in particular to places where the Client Identifier is used in [@!RFC6749] and in the presentation returned to the Verifier.
```

> Without the prefix, `example-client` in the example above would be interpreted as referring to a pre-registered client, as defined below. Therefore, Wallets MUST always use the full Client Identifier, including the prefix if provided, within the context of the Wallet or its responses to identify the client. This refers in particular to places where the Client Identifier is used in [@!RFC6749] and in the presentation returned to the Verifier.

Author: I completely restructured the section, please re-review.

## Verifier Metadata Management {#client_metadata_management}

The Client Identifier Scheme enables deployments of this specification to use different mechanisms to obtain and validate metadata of the Verifier beyond the scope of [@!RFC6749]. The term Client Identifier Scheme is used since the Verifier is acting as an OAuth 2.0 Client.

This specification defines the following Client Identifier Schemes, followed by the examples where applicable: 

> * `pre-registered`: This value represents the [@!RFC6749] default behavior, i.e., the Client Identifier needs to be known to the Wallet in advance of the Authorization Request. The Verifier metadata is obtained using [@!RFC7591] or through out-of-band mechanisms. Example Client Identifier: `pre-registered:e1fada73-8c43-4745-9756-303c2dc938a6`.

Reviewer 2: What happens in the event this suffix is missing? E.g ordinary OAuth2.

> * `redirect_uri`: This value indicates that the Client Identifier (without the prefix `redirect_uri:`) is the Verifier's Redirect URI (or Response URI when Response Mode `direct_post` is used). The Authorization Request MUST NOT be signed. The Verifier MAY omit the `redirect_uri` Authorization Request parameter (or `response_uri` when Response Mode `direct_post` is used). All Verifier metadata parameters MUST be passed using the `client_metadata` parameter defined in (#vp_token_request). Example Client Identifier: `redirect_uri:https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example.org%2Fcb`.

Reviewer 2: I dont think we should be continuing to support this client ID scheme because its security properties are quite un-usual. Namely because the authorisation request can't be signed and we can't have pre-registered metadata nor a trusted way to resolve the metadata (e.g via a URL) the client is entirely open to impersonation with regard to what it supports from the protocol.

Reviewer 3: I think we could recommend against using it in production (if we don't already), but given it gets quite wide usage in non-production implementations I'm not sure it would be helpful to remove it unless we're replacing it with something that has a similar level of ease of use. (I definitely don't think we should remove it in this PR, it would be out of scope here.)

Reviewer 2: Given the original context in which this issue was raised was due to security concerns with client_id_scheme I do think while we are revisiting this functionality in the specification we should also consider removing it. Personally I've not seen wide usage of this particular client id scheme.

Reviewer 3: It's supported in the conformance suite and about half the tests run have used the redirect_uri client_id_scheme. 

The lower security associated with redirect_uri now only occur when the verifier deliberately uses redirect_uri (rather than their being the potential for redirect_uri to be undetectably used when the verifier hadn't intended it), so we've made progress. Happy to see if the WG would rather remove it, but we should keep that as a separate issue & PR.

Author: @tplooker Please file a separate issue for this.

Reviewer 2: Agreed have opened as #269

  8%22%5D%7D%7D%7D
```

> * `https`: This value indicates that the Client Identifier is an Entity Identifier defined in OpenID Federation [@!OpenID.Federation]. Since the Entity Identifier already is defined to start with `https:`, the `https` does not need to be prefixed additionally. Processing rules given in [@!OpenID.Federation] MUST be followed. Automatic Registration as defined in [@!OpenID.Federation] MUST be used. The Authorization Request MAY also contain a `trust_chain` parameter. The final Verifier metadata is obtained from the Trust Chain after applying the policies, according to [@!OpenID.Federation]. The `client_metadata` parameter, if present in the Authorization Request, MUST be ignored when this Client Identifier scheme is used. Example Client Identifier: `https://federation-verifier.example.com`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* `https`: This value indicates that the Client Identifier is an Entity Identifier defined in OpenID Federation [@!OpenID.Federation]. Since the Entity Identifier already is defined to start with `https:`, the `https` is not prefixed additionally. Processing rules given in [@!OpenID.Federation] MUST be followed. Automatic Registration as defined in [@!OpenID.Federation] MUST be used. The Authorization Request MAY also contain a `trust_chain` parameter. The final Verifier metadata is obtained from the Trust Chain after applying the policies, according to [@!OpenID.Federation]. The `client_metadata` parameter, if present in the Authorization Request, MUST be ignored when this Client Identifier scheme is used. Example Client Identifier: `https://federation-verifier.example.com`.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think we want to prescribe OpenID Federation as the only way metadata could be resolved from the client ID when it is an HTTPS url. There are multiple well-known metadata locations proposed for client metadata and a similar precedent exists within OAuth/OpenID for IDP / Authorisation Server metadata.

Reviewer 3: The intention is that federation is the only think that uses the https client id scheme.

This doesn't stop a well-known based client id scheme being created, it would just use a client_id like `wellknown:https://rp.example.com/`.

If you think the text isn't conveying this could you suggest alternative wording please?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `https`: This value indicates that the Clients metadata is available at a well-known location such as defined in [@!OpenID.Federation]. Processing rules for retrieving and validating the metadata for the well-known location being used, such as that given in [@!OpenID.Federation] MUST be followed. The `client_metadata` parameter, if present in the Authorization Request, MUST be ignored when this Client Identifier scheme is used. Example Client Identifier: `https://federation-verifier.example.com`.
```

Reviewer 3: That doesn't reflect the intention though. If people want to use https urls with a different resolution method, they use a client id scheme other than https, e.g. `wellknown:https://rp.example.com/.` The "https" **client-id scheme** is reserved for federation only.

Avoiding the vagueness of "I'm going to somehow authenticate with you using this url, you go figure out how you think I'm trying to authenticate with you" is very much the point. If you think of the browser API, using the https client id scheme to reflect multiple ways the wallet can authenticate, can result in lots of deadends as the sandboxed wallet matcher is now unable to know if it supports the method the wallet is using to authenticate, because it literally doesn't know how the wallet is trying to authenticate and has no way to find out because it can't access the network.

Author: @selfissued I'll change this to a "MUST NOT be prefixed" to be very clear.

@tplooker @jogu I agree with Joseph here. This is an opportunity to have a clearly defined mechanism both from a security point of view and from an implementation perspective. Unless there is a good reason to not prefix other https-based client id schemes, we should avoid it.

Reviewer 2: Federation is an overly complicated mechanism for a client to simply convey its metadata at a well-known location, I don't believe we should be promoting it as the preferred mechanism for clients that are choosing to identify via an HTTPS url which is what this proposal does. It relegates other HTTPS based url based client metadata discovery mechanism to requiring a double prefix style client id which I don't think is a clean solution. 

If we would prefer to have less ambiguity then the text I suggested, I propose we have a seperate parameter to convey the metadata location for the client such as `client_metadata_location=federation`.

Reviewer: @tplooker Is it going to be any different than `client_id_scheme` for https-based urls?

Reviewer 3: Just to be clear, we are not promoting federation as a preferred mechanism. We are merely acknowledging that federation is already the long established way of client's using self-allocated client_ids beginning with https: and that there's not really any option open to us of changing that position.

The alternative (following in the vein of this PR) is that federation is also prefixed, but that introduces interoperability issues / confusion and still doesn't solve the 'clean solution' problem.

I think if we do want to do something that is a generic scheme based on https urls (and I think that could be a good idea), we need to do that with a prefix, otherwise we're going to overlap and/or conflict with at least two other different specifications. It's simply not sustainable or sensible to have multiple specs trying to define self-assert client ids that are pure https urls. Even federation probably shouldn't be doing it, but that ship has mostly sailed.

> * `did`: This value indicates that the Client Identifier is a DID defined in [@!DID-Core]. The request MUST be signed with a private key associated with the DID. A public key to verify the signature MUST be obtained from the `verificationMethod` property of a DID Document. Since DID Document may include multiple public keys, a particular public key used to sign the request in question MUST be identified by the `kid` in the JOSE Header. To obtain the DID Document, the Wallet MUST use DID Resolution defined by the DID method used by the Verifier. All Verifier metadata other than the public key MUST be obtained from the `client_metadata` parameter as defined in (#vp_token_request). Example Client Identifier: `did:example:123#1`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* `did`: This value indicates that the Client Identifier is a DID defined in [@!DID-Core]. Since the DID URL already is defined to start with `did:`, the `did` is not prefixed additionally. The request MUST be signed with a private key associated with the DID. A public key to verify the signature MUST be obtained from the `verificationMethod` property of a DID Document. Since DID Document may include multiple public keys, a particular public key used to sign the request in question MUST be identified by the `kid` in the JOSE Header. To obtain the DID Document, the Wallet MUST use DID Resolution defined by the DID method used by the Verifier. All Verifier metadata other than the public key MUST be obtained from the `client_metadata` parameter as defined in (#vp_token_request). Example Client Identifier: `did:example:123#1`.
```

Author: This has been resolved in the latest revision of the draft.

* `x509_san_dns`: When the Client Identifier Scheme is `x509_san_dns`, the Client Identifier MUST be a DNS name and match a `dNSName` Subject Alternative Name (SAN) [@!RFC5280] entry in the leaf certificate passed with the request. The request MUST be signed with the private key corresponding to the public key in the leaf X.509 certificate of the certificate chain added to the request in the `x5c` JOSE header [@!RFC7515] of the signed request object. The Wallet MUST validate the signature and the trust chain of the X.509 certificate. All Verifier metadata other than the public key MUST be obtained from the `client_metadata` parameter. If the Wallet can establish trust in the Client Identifier authenticated through the certificate, e.g. because the Client Identifier is contained in a list of trusted Client Identifiers, it may allow the client to freely choose the `redirect_uri` value. If not, the FQDN of the `redirect_uri` value MUST match the Client Identifier. Example Client Identifier: `x509_san_dns:client.example.org`.

> * `x509_san_uri`: When the Client Identifier Scheme is `x509_san_uri`, the Client Identifier MUST be a URI and match a `uniformResourceIdentifier` Subject Alternative Name (SAN) [@!RFC5280] entry in the leaf certificate passed with the request. The request MUST be signed with the private key corresponding to the public key in the leaf X.509 certificate of the certificate chain added to the request in the `x5c` JOSE header [@!RFC7515] of the signed request object. The Wallet MUST validate the signature and the trust chain of the X.509 certificate. All Verifier metadata other than the public key MUST be obtained from the `client_metadata` parameter. If the Wallet can establish trust in the Client Identifier authenticated through the certificate, e.g. because the Client Identifier is contained in a list of trusted Client Identifiers, it may allow the client to freely choose the `redirect_uri` value. If not, the `redirect_uri` value MUST match the Client Identifier. Example Client Identifier: `x509_san_uri:https://client.example.org/cb`.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

  8%22%5D%7D%7D%7D
```

> * `https`: This value indicates that the Client Identifier is an Entity Identifier defined in OpenID Federation [@!OpenID.Federation]. Since the Entity Identifier is already defined to start with `https:`, this Client Identifier Scheme MUST NOT be prefixed additionally. Processing rules given in [@!OpenID.Federation] MUST be followed. Automatic Registration as defined in [@!OpenID.Federation] MUST be used. The Authorization Request MAY also contain a `trust_chain` parameter. The final Verifier metadata is obtained from the Trust Chain after applying the policies, according to [@!OpenID.Federation]. The `client_metadata` parameter, if present in the Authorization Request, MUST be ignored when this Client Identifier scheme is used. Example Client Identifier: `https://federation-verifier.example.com`.

Author: Following Brian's comments, I was wondering if we should open this up to other client ID schemes using `https` without an additional prefix. For example:

```suggestion
* `https`: This value indicates that the Client Identifier is an HTTPS URL. Since the Entity Identifier is already defined to start with `https:`, this Client Identifier Scheme MUST NOT be prefixed additionally. Unless another mechanism for resolving the Client Identifier and the metadata is defined within a profile of this specification, the following rules apply: 
     * The Client Identifier MUST be treated as an OpenID Federation [@!OpenID.Federation] Entity Identifier. Processing rules given in [@!OpenID.Federation] MUST be followed. Automatic Registration as defined in [@!OpenID.Federation] MUST be used. The Authorization Request MAY also contain a `trust_chain` parameter. The final Verifier metadata is obtained from the Trust Chain after applying the policies, according to [@!OpenID.Federation]. The `client_metadata` parameter, if present in the Authorization Request, MUST be ignored when this Client Identifier scheme is used. Example Client Identifier: `https://federation-verifier.example.com`.
```

Reviewer 6: that's like saying "here are the rules we define for prefixing, but other rules for the same prefix can be defined outside this specification", so I don't think that's a good idea.

Reviewer 3: I agree with Kristina, I'm reluctant to open the door to allowing other schemes to use https without prefixing. It just creates a mess and confusion and interoperability problems.

I'm only reluctantly accepting that Federation should be allowed to use https urls without a prefix. I cannot see any strong reason to let others do so. Having a prefix really causes no technical issue unless something is already in production, and I'm pretty sure federation is the only spec that can even attempt the 'already in production' argument.

Out of the Authorization Request parameters defined in [@!RFC6749] and (#vp_token_request), the following are supported with this profile: 

* `client_id`
* `response_type`
* `response_mode`
* `nonce`
* `presentation_definition`
* `client_metadata`
* `request`

> The `client_id` MUST be omitted in unsigned requests defined in (#unsigned_request). The Wallet determines the Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Web Platform and/or app platform. The transport of the request and origin from the Web Platform and/or app platform to the Wallet is platform-specific and is out of scope of this profile.

Reviewer 8: Per my (possibly flawed) understanding, this effectively means that an unsigned request will have a Client Identifier determined to be something like "https://verifiers.domain.com" which is a value that "indicates that the Client Identifier is an Entity Identifier defined in OpenID Federation" https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/263/files#diff-3118c9756a1d7b361bb53af8bd9d65666476a27cfeeced56c47a5dccc38eac55R494 

It is not that. 

This bit of text was arguably a bit unspecified before this PR. 

But now it's wrong.

Author: As discussed on the call, an option would be that the wallet adds a prefix indicating that it derived the client id from the web platform, e.g., `api-orign:`.

Reviewer 8: This option was more or less the agreed to path forward in the call (as I remember it anyway).

Reviewer 8: I still object to special treatment of DIDs and Federation. And do not buy the argument about DIDs not being special. But in the interest of moving forward, I've conceded on that point and agreed on fixing things here. And also came to realize that #213 is related.

Reviewer 8: Here is an attempt at some suggested text, which I half promised to do during the call.

```suggestion
The `client_id` parameter MUST be omitted in unsigned requests defined in (#unsigned_request). The Wallet determines the effective Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Web Platform and/or app platform. The effective Client Identifier is composed of a synthetic Client Identifier Scheme of `web-orign` and the origin itself. For example, an origin of `https://verifier.example.com` would result in an effective Client Identifier of `web-orign:https://verifier.example.com` The transport of the request and origin from the Web Platform and/or app platform to the Wallet is platform-specific and is out of scope of this profile.
```

The text in the {#unsigned_request} section likely needs a bit of an update too. But that content is too far out of scope from the changes in the PR to make a suggestion.

Reviewer 8: WRT the text in {#unsigned_request} perhaps,

> The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request parameters as members in the `request` member passed to the API. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier's origin as asserted by the user agent as the Verifer's Client Identifier. 

to

> The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request parameters as members in the `request` member passed to the API. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier's origin as asserted by the user agent to determine the Verifier's effective Client Identifier.

or something

Reviewer 8: Thank you Dr. @danielfett
